== Introduction

This specification describes the RISC-V Supervisor Binary Interface, known
from here on as SBI. The SBI allows supervisor-mode (S-mode or VS-mode)
software to be portable across all RISC-V implementations by defining an
abstraction for platform (or hypervisor) specific functionality. The design
of the SBI follows the general RISC-V philosophy of having a small core along
with a set of optional modular extensions.

An SBI extension defines a set of SBI functions which provides a particular
functionality to supervisor-mode software. SBI extensions as a whole are
optional and cannot be partially implemented unless an SBI extension defines
a mechanism to discover implemented SBI functions. If sbi_probe_extension()
signals that an extension is available, all functions present in the SBI
version reported by sbi_get_spec_version() must conform to that version of
the SBI specification.

The higher privilege software providing SBI interface to the supervisor-mode
software is referred as an SBI implementation or Supervisor Execution
Environment (SEE). An SBI implementation (or SEE) can be platform runtime
firmware executing in machine-mode (M-mode) (see below <<fig_intro1>>) or
it can be some hypervisor executing in hypervisor-mode (HS-mode) (see below
<<fig_intro2>>).

[#fig_intro1]
.RISC-V System without H-extension
image::riscv-sbi-intro1.png[width=524,height=218]

[#fig_intro2]
.RISC-V System with H-extension
image::riscv-sbi-intro2.png[width=800,height=350]

Harts are provisioned by the SBI implementation for supervisor-mode software.
Hence, from the perspective of the SBI implementation, the S-mode hart contexts
are referred to as virtual harts. In the case that the implementation is a
hypervisor, virtual harts represent the VS-mode guest contexts.

The SBI specification doesnâ€™t specify any method for hardware discovery.
The supervisor software must rely on the other industry standard hardware
discovery methods (i.e. Device Tree or ACPI) for that.
